# Notes 210404

## Properties

We store a next-check-for-update time stamp. It will be `Long.MaxValue` if automatic check is disabled.
If upon starting the launcher, that time stamp lies in the past, we run the version check (and upon success
update the stamp in the properties file).

The properties also contain a current version string. If that is not present upon update check, the "update"
aka installation is always performed. Otherwise, if newer version is found, the user is asked to confirm updating.

Upon downloading the artifacts, their paths are stored in the properties. So in the case of `--offline` or no
pending update check, we simply retrieve these paths and skip Coursier altogether. Once new artifacts are there,
delete the directories referring to the old artifacts that are not in the set of directories of the new paths.

## Force

We could add a `--force` switch to force check for updates __and__ present all found versions to the user. That
way, a broken installation could be fixed, or one could even revert to older versions.

## Checking from Mellite

We need a simple protocol between launcher and Mellite to be able to check for updates manually. This would be
from the 'about' menu item I guess. Without developing anything from scratch, we could simply use OSC. ScalaOSC
is a fairly small library footprint for the launcher to include.

The launcher could pick any available UDP port, and pass that as argument to Mellite, __if__ the Mellite version
is the minimum version supporting the launcher. The launcher (L) would be `osc.UDP.Client`, the same goes for 
Mellite (M).

### 'check for updates' is activated in M

- M: `[ "/check-update" ]`

The resulting dialog will be displayed by the launcher. If the user confirms a new update installation,
the update is performed, and the old jars are marked in the properties. L notifies M:

- L: `[ "/restart" ]`

Which is confirmed by M by exiting with a special exit code distinct from regular quit, e.g. `82`.

If L sees the exit `82`, it will delete the old jars, and restart with the new jars.

------

## Offline

From Alexandre Archambault:

> Both `Resolve` and `Versions` can be made offline by tweaking their cache. Something like 
> `Resolve().withCache(FileCache().withCachePolicies(Seq(CachePolicy.LocalOnly)))` ought to work.

> To get the repository associated to a module, you can look at `Resolution#projectCache`

> `ArtifactSource` in the value type should give you the repository, although you may need to cast it as a
> `Repository` manually.
